# js-learning
general projects from odin project

08/12/2022 - I completed a few assignments with the AI chat bot. I would attempt it first to try and figure it out and from there I would ask a few questions to get a bit of guidance. After a bit of that I will just ask it the prompt and see what it's answer is. Even with asking it that it sometimes doesn't give the exact right answer and can't explain what is wrong. For instance, JS was converting a string "90" to the number 90 but I didn't want it to because that was suppose to be a failing parameter. I was trying to make a condition with isNaN but it was interpreting  it incorrectly. I decided to change it to typeof !== number which worked. The chat bot didn't give me that answer, though, and I couldn't it to realize that what it suggested wasn't working.

06/12/2022 - I've started using the chatGPT to help me with coding. It seems really helpful but I think it's being overwhelmed because it started returning error messages. I bet you the servers can't handle this type of traffic.

05/12/2022 - I finished todays project. I was really frustrated because I was printing the expected output but the test wasn't returning anything. I wasn't sure why it wasn't working until I was reviewing other code and I saw the "return" command in another function. I realized I wasn't returning anything. Now that I think about it, I'm not sure how to test a return. I've been putting console.logs inside functions and expecting that is the return but it isn't. Maybe I do console.log(functionName('hello')) to see if it is returning hello or not. Something to definitely look into. I'd also like to mention that this project asked me to reverse a string and I thought I would need to break it into an array and run a for loop to pull the last item from one array and push it to another. I'd like to know how to do that but I realized after looking it up that there is a reverse method. Takes a lot of the fun out of it but also is frustrating to realize you are doing it the hard way.

03/12/2022 - I have a bunch of projects that I need to do but they are pretty fun. My git being messed up from having another git within it is annoying and I haven't been updating because of it. Not a huge deal but I need to fix it. The major thing I learned today was that you can declare a variable outside a loop but if you wish to manipulate it later you no longer need the "let" declaration. You simply call the variable and an operator. So I was trying to do "let var = var++" essentially, because that is how you do it in python from what I remember but you can just drop the "let".

30/11/2022 - I have a fuck tonne of JS exercises that I have to do with this next project. It's kinda neat, though. There is a method for checking if what I put into the code is correct. I add code to the js file and the spec.js file runs a test to see if my output is correct. I'm kinda dreading doing all this work but I'm sure I'll enjoy it. :P

28/11/2022 - I didn't want to make all these restrictions and conditions for the prompt entries for this game so I just made conditions where if the user picks something else I will force a selection. Honestly, since it is in the console it isn't a nice way to play the game because the prompt window would appear overtop of the console when it would appear. I'm done now and happy to be done. This would be nicer to do with react. Obviously...

27/11/2022 - Almost done the RPS game. Pretty straight forward and I'm using a lot of stuff I remember from learning python.I'm excited to finish these things and move on to stuff that will help me to get a job. Whatever that is... :P

26/11/2022 - I got the RPS game working. I make a few different mistakes but realized early the problem. Honestly, they seem like the kind of mistakes that you could make an have no idea what the fuck is going on. The major thing was I made 2 functions that picked rock, paper, or scissors for the computer and the player and I would call them each time I printed to the consol but since these functions have a rng in them they would change very time I called the function. I changed it so be a variable that has the function assigned to it and called the variable in the console logs so it was only calling the function once.

25/11/2022 - I have to make a rock paper scissors game and I think it should be fine. I feel like I've made something like this in other languages and the tik tak toe game I did in react should be a big help. I'll make some. I'll probably make an internal readme for the game itself to plan it out and have some pseudocode in there.

24/11/2022 - This error stuff suggests that the error messages should be enough to let the programmer know what the issues is. That understanding the error messages well would lead to a lot of streamlined debugging. It does make me think, though, that there may not be tools that are intuitive enough to identify some simple mistakes. A TypeError seems like a simple thing to correct if you try and pass a function that requires a string but you are passing it an array. Certainly someone has made something that says "expecting a string" when this happens... It's probably not that simple if there isn't something like that.

24/11/2022 - I just realized that error messages are from a system that is built into the language or compiler maybe (??) and it is a necessity to have. I don't know why this never clicked before but it makes sense that it was made to solve a functional issue. I should put more effort into understanding error messages as a whole and how they occur. There would be a limited number of them and all of them would identify very specific things. There is even a chance that error messages aren't specific enough for some issues or that some issues would be missed and not produce an error message.

24/11/2022 - Finished the problem solving assignment. It was pretty straight forward, it mostly talked about for loops, if/else conditions, and how JS but most languages process sequentially, top down, left to right, just like reading.

21/11/2022 - Finally got to do some coding again. Lots of reading in The Odin Project and I actually find it annoying. I don't mind reading the documentation when I know why I'm reading it but it feels like they just throw all the documentation at you and hope it all sticks and then give you the easiest shit in the world to do as the assignment. It feels like the scene in Golden Boy where he claims to know how to code but he doesn't own a computer so he writes all his code on paper and has never actually tried it. It feels like the documentation is without context. Anyway, finished the assignment, the final task to take the last letter of a word was pretty heavy handed. I changed the word into an array and then grabbed the last item, then switched the last letter back to a string. Seems like a dumb way to do it but it's done. 

14/11/2022 - This stuff is boring but I'll work my way through it. I'm going to try and read the intro for the next assignment, then skip to the end to see what the practice is, then work backwards from there. I think I'll be more interested in what is going on if I do it this way.

13/11/2022 - It is wild how boring this shit is. Learning about variables sucks and I would much rather get fucked up in the middle of coding by not knowing how variables work than reading about them and speculating on how I could fuck myself up. It's a dumb way to learn. Better to give me a task that deliberately traps me with weird situations instead of telling me the nono's and hope I remember all this dumb shit. I should say, though, that learning that JS isn't good for math at a granular level was interesting. There are weird rounding errors that happen at work that I have to tell our clients about and I hate it. I feel like we should import Python or something to do the math and export the values. I don't know if that is a thing but I have no idea why we have rounding issues and inconsistent sigfigs. Drives my nuts.

13/11/2022 - Ok, so the process is to make the repos on github, copy the SSH to clone it, go to the directory you wish to have the git in (this will create the folder and the files within so make sure you didn't make a folder for this), then use the "git clone <SSH>" command. From here it seems I can make commits and push like normal. There may be an issue with making repos like this but I can't see it at this point.

13/11/2022 - I'm very bad at making new repos and I get confused at what the best process is. I should document it this time so I don't get confused in the future.